Hi and welcome back.
In this section we're looking at errors in Python.
Python's got a long history with errors,
and errors are really useful.
And especially the way they're used in Python
as we're gonna see throughout this section,
makes errors powerful,
and they make your code very readable.
So in this section we're going to look at errors,
how you can use them, how you can create them,
how you can deal with them.
At the start, nobody likes errors.
Let's says we've got something like this line here.
Print my_variable.
Now notice how I've not created my_variable before,
and this editor already shows me a small cross sign
saying that there's undefined variable, my_variable.
Well let's say we didn't have that hint there.
Python hasn't ran yet,
so this code is perfectly reasonable in terms of its syntax.
We're printing some variable
that Python doesn't know whether it exists or not,
until the point that it runs.
So what will happen when we run this?
What type of error will we get?
Well, we will get a NameError.
As you can see up here, we get a traceback,
we're gonna look at exactly what those are,
and then it tells us in file Python in line one,
and at the end it says a NameError
and then it gives you a small description of the error.
The name, my_variable, is not defined.
It's great to receive this error
as opposed to some other error,
because once you know what it means,
you can easily find the source of that problem.
You can say, "Okay, my_variable's not defined,
"so I must have used my_variable somewhere,
"and it wasn't defined when I used it."
And it tells you where that problem was, which is line one.
So all you have to do is go to line one and find my_variable
and say, "Okay, why does it not exist at this point?"
And of course the reason is
'cause we've not defined it above,
and we can do that, equals 123,
and then we can re-run this and now this all works.
It would be much worse
if instead of a NameError with a nice description,
you just got an arbitrary error.
I'm running this to get the error again,
and notice how it tells you where it is
and the name of the error and a description.
If you didn't get any of this,
it would be hours, it would take you hours or possibly days
to find a simple error like this one in a large application.
Rather large applications, commercial applications,
have tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands
of lines of code,
so if you got something that said,
error, an error has occurred,
and that's all the info it gave you, you would struggle.
So the name of the error, NameError, is really useful,
but even more useful is the traceback.
This is also called a stack trace in many languages.
Traceback is stack trace, more or less the same thing,
and what it tells you is where the error happened,
and because we're running this file directly,
it says it happened in this file.
Now this editor is an online editor,
so we don't actually have a file,
but it seems that the file is called Python
or something like that.
Tells you where it happened and so forth.
So this traceback is a pretty simple traceback
that has one line,
and then it tells you where your error happened.
Let's look at a slightly more complex traceback,
which has more than a single line,
and I'll explain what's happening in a larger traceback.
It's really important
for you to be able to read these tracebacks
to understand what they mean,
so that you can solve your own errors.
Here we've got a slightly more complex traceback.
This time the traceback has four different lines.
Now it's really important
that at the very bottom of the traceback
you're still getting the same thing
that you got in the previous traceback.
You've got the name, which is,
in this case it's a TypeError.
And then you've got a small description,
and it says,
list indices must be integers or slices, not string.
And then as you go up
it gives you information of where the error happened.
Now, we're gonna talk about this stack trace right now.
So let's give you a quick description on what is going on.
So at the very bottom it gives you the error that was raised
and a description, as we've just seen.
In this case it's a TypeError.
Then it gives you what line of your code raised the errors.
That's the very next line above the TypeError.
In this case, the line that gave us an error
was print, and then a formatted string
that says, name and in curly brackets, movies, name.
So this is the line of our code that gave us the error.
Then it also tells us what function that line is in.
That's just the line above.
It says, File /Users/jslvtr/Dropbox/teclado/courses/
complete-python-course/section3/milestone_1/app dot py.
It says, line 40.
Another variant it says, in show_movie_details.
So this is the function that the error happened in,
the show_movie_details function.
Now the line above is where that function was called.
So this function, show_movie_details
was called as show_movie_details with movie as an argument,
and the line directly above tells you
in which function that function call happened,
that's in the show_movies function.
The show_movies function
was called inside the menu function,
and the menu function was called directly in the module,
which is the file that we execute.
So it tells you where your error happened,
what function that was in, what function that was in,
what function that was in, and so forth,
until you reached the file that you executed.
So this is the code that raised that error.
Now, we've got add_movie, show_movies,
and then at the bottom, show_movie_details.
I'm sure you remember this code.
We wrote this for the first milestone project.
And what we've got is an add_movie
we are appending to our movies list presumably,
a dictionary that has name, director, and year.
In the show_movies function, we're taking a movie list,
where it's writing over it,
and for each movie we're showing the movie details.
Inside show_movie_details,
that takes one parameter, which is called movie,
and then it's printing three sets of details.
Now do you notice anything weird
inside show_movie_details?
Well I noticed something, which is there.
And that's that the name is now inside curly braces,
movies, name.
Where as the other two print statements
are movie, director and movie, year.
Notice how the first one has movies there.
So what's happening here is that we're trying to access
this name key of a dictionary,
but what we're accessing it in is the movies list.
So then it tells you, you cannot use this key thing
to access an item inside a list.
You must only do that
when the thing you're accessing in is a dictionary.
So if that was movie,
then we could access the name key of it.
Because it's movies, it's a list,
we cannot access the name key of it.
Movies, by the way,
was defined at the top of the file as a list,
and that's why movies is a list.
And the movie argument parameter there is a dictionary
that was passed in from the show_movies function.
So it told us, the stack trace told us
that the error happened on this print statement
inside the show_movie_details function,
and the show_movie_details function was called
inside the show_movies function,
which is exactly what you can see there.
The show_movies function
was called from within the menu function,
which you don't see in this code, but it was slightly above.
And the menu function was called at the file level.
So how do you deal with these errors?
What do you do when you encounter one of these errors?
And a lot of students,
a lot of my students encounter errors,
and the first thing they do,
which is a perfectly reasonable thing to do by the way,
is they go and ask in the course Q&A, and they say,
"Look, I've got this error.
"Help me."
Now I'm happy to help you, but,
if the first thing you do
is go and ask me to solve your problem,
which I'm happy to do because that's what I'm here for,
you're learning is gonna be slightly impaired.
So here's my recommendation for when you get an error.
What to do.
The first thing to do, that a lot of people miss,
is you have to look at your code.
You have to look at the line that the error happened in,
and see if you notice anything strange
with the surrounding lines.
For example, in that function there,
we were using the wrong variable.
I know it's a single letter of a difference,
but for Python that is a world of a difference.
So look at the code carefully,
and it's gonna take some time for you
to really start spotting those brackets,
or an s that's missing or not there,
or small character differences.
And at the blink of an eye, it's gonna take some time
for you to get accustomed to that, but you will get there.
The next thing to do is,
if you can't spot anything by just looking at the code,
just copy the error and the message,
just the very last line and put it into Google,
and see if something comes up in StackOverflow.
Normally, there's always somebody that's asked,
"What does this error mean?"
And if you put in a NameError,
variable blah blah blah doesn't exist into Google,
you'll get somebody that's asked,
"I don't know what this means,"
and somebody that's replied,
"This means your variable's not defined."
So it's always helpful to put things into Google
and see what comes up.
Maybe there'll be something helpful there.
Now if neither of these help,
you have to start taking a more methodical approach
to identifying the error.
This is, look at the code again,
but this time, much more slowly,
and run through it as if you were a computer.
That means start at the very top of your code.
Think, "What data am I giving the computer in this line?"
Then move over to the next line and think,
"What data am I giving it in this line?"
And then into the next line and so forth.
Mimic what the computer is doing exactly in every function.
We're going to get a lot more expert in doing this
over the next few sections.
But as you do this, do you notice anything
that could potentially be a source of an error?
But rather the error may not be in the line,
or rather the error source
may not be in the line that raised the error,
but rather in a different line
that maybe set the variable to the wrong value
or something like that.
If this doesn't help, run only some parts of the code.
For example,
try only running the show_movie_details function
with a dictionary as an argument, see if that works.
If that works,
try running the function that calls that function
with some arguments.
And then trying running the function
that calls that function with some arguments.
As you incrementally run your code,
eventually you'll reach a step where the error will happen,
and you'll say, "Okay, the error must happen
"some point between these two function calls."
And finally, if this doesn't work either, use a debugger.
We're going to learn how to, in the next couple of videos.
Python has an excellent debugger,
and we're going to really be using that.
And that debugger helps you step through your code
and identify what variables are.
It lets you sort of stop at a certain point in your code
and inspect the current status of your programme
and so forth.
It's really useful.
And of course, at any point,
I know this is quite tricky
to go through all of these steps without despair,
so at any point, ask questions in the course Q&A.
We're here to help, and so make use of that.
Now if you ask a question in the course Q&A,
which again, you should do if you're stuck,
make sure that you give us all the information
that you've already gathered
through your search for fixing this error.
That way we don't have to then start at the top
and do the same thing again.
So if you tell us,
"I've looked on my code and I can't spot anything,"
then, "I've gone into Google
"and found that this error means that."
And, "Here's my code by the way,"
and, "Here's the data that I'm givin' it."
Now we can really quickly see,
okay, you've given it this data, that all looks correct,
this error means that.
We can then piece the pieces of the puzzle together
and find that answer much quicker.
So when you have a question in the course Q&A
give us all the information you can.
And then the answer will come really quickly.
We aim to have all your answers within 24 hours,
but of course that's only possible
if we don't have a back and forth between me and you
trying to find out what the source of the problem could be.
So that's it for this video.
This is an intro to errors.
Really errors in Python, but also in programming as a whole.
This is something you should be doing as you programme,
in any programming language.
So that's it for this video.
I'll see you on the next one.